Errors / Overview Version Version 6 Version 5 Version 4 Version 3 Theme Dark Light Auto Welcome to Pine Script® v6 Pine Script® primer First steps First indicator Next steps Language Execution model Type system Script structure Identifiers Declaration statements Variable declarations Operators Conditional structures Loops Built-ins User-defined functions Objects Enums Methods Arrays Matrices Maps Visuals Overview Backgrounds Bar coloring Bar plotting Colors Fills Levels Lines and boxes Plots Tables Text and shapes Concepts Alerts Bar states Chart information Inputs Libraries Non-standard charts data Other timeframes and data Repainting Sessions Strategies Strings Time Timeframes Writing scripts Style guide Debugging Profiling and optimization Publishing scripts Limitations Errors and warnings Overview CE10101 CW10003 RE10139 RE10143 FAQ General Alerts Data structures Functions Indicators Other data and timeframes Programming Strategies Strings and formatting Techniques Times, dates, and sessions Variables and operators Visuals Release notes Migration guides Overview To Pine Script® version 6 To Pine Script® version 5 To Pine Script® version 4 To Pine Script® version 3 To Pine Script® version 2 Where can I get more information? --> Clear Search results Version Version 6 Version 5 Version 4 Version 3 Search Theme Dark Light Auto Welcome to Pine Script® v6 Pine Script® primer First steps First indicator Next steps Language Execution model Type system Script structure Identifiers Declaration statements Variable declarations Operators Conditional structures Loops Built-ins User-defined functions Objects Enums Methods Arrays Matrices Maps Visuals Overview Backgrounds Bar coloring Bar plotting Colors Fills Levels Lines and boxes Plots Tables Text and shapes Concepts Alerts Bar states Chart information Inputs Libraries Non-standard charts data Other timeframes and data Repainting Sessions Strategies Strings Time Timeframes Writing scripts Style guide Debugging Profiling and optimization Publishing scripts Limitations Errors and warnings Overview CE10101 CW10003 RE10139 RE10143 FAQ General Alerts Data structures Functions Indicators Other data and timeframes Programming Strategies Strings and formatting Techniques Times, dates, and sessions Variables and operators Visuals Release notes Migration guides Overview To Pine Script® version 6 To Pine Script® version 5 To Pine Script® version 4 To Pine Script® version 3 To Pine Script® version 2 Where can I get more information? User Manual / Errors and warnings / Overview Overview Introduction Pine Script ® uses runtime errors , compilation errors , and compiler warnings to help prevent unintended or erroneous script behaviors: Runtime errors occur under specific conditions as a script runs on a dataset. If a script encounters a runtime error while it executes on the chart, it stops executing and displays a red “exclamation point” icon in the status line . The user can click the icon to view the error message and the bar index on which the error occurred. Pine includes built-in runtime errors for invalid arguments in function calls, history-referencing operations with invalid offsets, and various other error conditions. Programmers can also define custom runtime errors for specific conditions in their scripts by using the runtime.error() function. Compilation errors occur at compile time, before a script begins to run on a dataset. If a script contains invalid syntax or other issues that prevent compilation, the Pine Editor highlights the problematic code in red and displays an error message to indicate the cause. If the script is on the chart, users can also access the error message from the script’s status line. Compiler warnings also occur before a script begins to run. In contrast to compilation errors, these warnings inform users about syntax that does not prevent compilation but can cause unintended results or behaviors. They can also occur for other reasons, such as using deprecated features or old Pine Script versions. The Pine Editor highlights code that causes a warning in orange, then displays a message outlining the issue and potential solutions. We recommend following the suggestions in compiler warnings to help ensure that a script works as intended. This page provides an overview of the common runtime errors, compilation errors, and warnings described in the User Manual’s “Errors and warnings” section. Tip You can also find information about other errors and warnings for specific features on the pages that describe those features in the User Manual. For example, the sections in the Type system page include details about common type-related errors. Error reference table The reference table below lists the current errors and warnings documented in this section of the User Manual. The codes in the “Error/warning code” column link to the pages that contain detailed information about the issues and possible solutions. Note This list is not exhaustive. New pages for other common errors and warnings will likely be added over time. Error/warning code Message Solution CE10101 The condition of the “X” statement must evaluate to a “bool” value. Use only expressions that return values of the “bool” type as the conditions in if and switch statements. CW10003 The function “X” should be called on each calculation for consistency. It is recommended to extract the call from this scope. The function call might cause unintended results when executing inside a conditional structure or loop because it relies on data from past bars . Move the call to the global scope , and outside conditional expressions, to ensure consistent history-based calculations. RE10139 Memory limits exceeded. There are multiple possible causes and solutions. A common cause is using request.*() calls to request large collections of data across bars. The usual solution for that case is to optimize the requests to return collection IDs only when necessary . Consult the error page to learn more. RE10143 The requested historical offset (X) is beyond the historical buffer’s limit (Y). This error occurs if a script references the history of a variable or expression from too many bars back. A typical solution is to use the max_bars_back() function to specify how many past bars of data to include in the historical buffer for the referenced series. Next CE10101 On this page Introduction Error reference table Pine Q&A chat Stack Overflow ↗ Telegram ↗ Reddit ↗ Copyright © 2026 TradingView, Inc.