Migration_guides / To Pine Script® version 4 Version Version 6 Version 5 Version 4 Version 3 Theme Dark Light Auto Welcome to Pine Script® v6 Pine Script® primer First steps First indicator Next steps Language Execution model Type system Script structure Identifiers Declaration statements Variable declarations Operators Conditional structures Loops Built-ins User-defined functions Objects Enums Methods Arrays Matrices Maps Visuals Overview Backgrounds Bar coloring Bar plotting Colors Fills Levels Lines and boxes Plots Tables Text and shapes Concepts Alerts Bar states Chart information Inputs Libraries Non-standard charts data Other timeframes and data Repainting Sessions Strategies Strings Time Timeframes Writing scripts Style guide Debugging Profiling and optimization Publishing scripts Limitations Errors and warnings Overview CE10101 CW10003 RE10139 RE10143 FAQ General Alerts Data structures Functions Indicators Other data and timeframes Programming Strategies Strings and formatting Techniques Times, dates, and sessions Variables and operators Visuals Release notes Migration guides Overview To Pine Script® version 6 To Pine Script® version 5 To Pine Script® version 4 To Pine Script® version 3 To Pine Script® version 2 Where can I get more information? --> Clear Search results Version Version 6 Version 5 Version 4 Version 3 Search Theme Dark Light Auto Welcome to Pine Script® v6 Pine Script® primer First steps First indicator Next steps Language Execution model Type system Script structure Identifiers Declaration statements Variable declarations Operators Conditional structures Loops Built-ins User-defined functions Objects Enums Methods Arrays Matrices Maps Visuals Overview Backgrounds Bar coloring Bar plotting Colors Fills Levels Lines and boxes Plots Tables Text and shapes Concepts Alerts Bar states Chart information Inputs Libraries Non-standard charts data Other timeframes and data Repainting Sessions Strategies Strings Time Timeframes Writing scripts Style guide Debugging Profiling and optimization Publishing scripts Limitations Errors and warnings Overview CE10101 CW10003 RE10139 RE10143 FAQ General Alerts Data structures Functions Indicators Other data and timeframes Programming Strategies Strings and formatting Techniques Times, dates, and sessions Variables and operators Visuals Release notes Migration guides Overview To Pine Script® version 6 To Pine Script® version 5 To Pine Script® version 4 To Pine Script® version 3 To Pine Script® version 2 Where can I get more information? User Manual / Migration guides / To Pine Script® version 4 To Pine Script ® version 4 This is a guide to converting Pine Script code from @version=3 to @version=4 . Converter The Pine Editor can automatically convert v3 indicators and strategies to v4. The Pine converter is described in the Overview page. Not all scripts can be automatically converted from v3 to v4. If you want to convert the script manually or if your indicator returns a compilation error after conversion, consult the guide below for more information. Renaming of built-in constants, variables, and functions In Pine Script v4 the following built-in constants, variables, and functions were renamed: Color constants (e.g red ) are moved to the color.* namespace (e.g. color.red ). The color function has been renamed to color.new . Constants for input() types (e.g. integer ) are moved to the input.* namespace (e.g. input.integer ). The plot style constants (e.g. histogram style) are moved to the plot.style_* namespace (e.g. plot.style_histogram ). Style constants for the hline function (e.g. the dotted style) are moved to the hline.style_* namespace (e.g. hline.style_dotted ). Constants of days of the week (e.g. sunday ) are moved to the dayofweek.* namespace (e.g. dayofweek.sunday ). The variables of the current chart timeframe (e.g. period , isintraday ) are moved to the timeframe.* namespace (e.g. timeframe.period , timeframe.isintraday ). The interval variable was renamed to timeframe.multiplier . The ticker and tickerid variables are renamed to syminfo.ticker and syminfo.tickerid respectively. The n variable that contains the bar index value has been renamed to bar_index . The reason behind renaming all of the above was to structure the standard language tools and make working with code easier. New names are grouped according to assignments under common prefixes. For example, you will see a list with all available color constants if you type ‘color’ in the editor and press Ctrl + Space. Explicit variable type declaration In Pine Script v4 it’s no longer possible to create variables with an unknown data type at the time of their declaration. This was done to avoid a number of issues that arise when the variable type changes after its initialization with the na value. From now on, you need to explicitly specify their type using keywords or type functions (for example, float ) when declaring variables with the na value: //@version=4 study(&quot;Green Candle Close&quot;) // We expect `src` to hold float values, so we declare in with the `float` keyword float src = na if close > open src := close plot(src) Previous To Pine Script® version 5 Next To Pine Script® version 3 On this page Overview Converter Renaming of built-in constants, variables, and functions Explicit variable type declaration Pine Q&A chat Stack Overflow ↗ Telegram ↗ Reddit ↗ Copyright © 2026 TradingView, Inc.